---
title: "All Life is Art"
date: '2012-06-09'
description:
categories: ['descriptive']
---

All life is art.

In the sun-swept plains of Kenya, there between the tall grass, a lion locks
her eyes on a wildebeest that has strayed from the herd. The wind sweeps across
her back and carries her scent away from her prey; low and well concealed in
the tall grass a distance from where the herd grazes, she advances in slow and
precise movements. Her eyes never deviate from the large creature's gait and
movements; while a wildebeest such as this, approximately 200kg, could feed her
pride for days, it outweighs her, and could lean that weight into her wildly,
or worse, throw her into the herd. The beasts would stampede. Even if she were
able to dig her claws into its hide and wrap her muzzle around its own, she
would have to endure, like a rider, for that long number of seconds before the
wildebeest would slump under the vicious method of her attack. Fifteen meters
away, now, she raises her hips and readies her muscles. Without hesitation, she
lunges into a sprint.

---

Six AM rings out in the form of an alarm on Sandra's smartphone. The scent of
coffee wafts through the air and hesitations about the day are left in bed as
the morning routine begins. After a cup of coffee she is passing gracefully
from kitchen to bathroom, speaking aloud to no one in search of three gratitude
for the day; she jots them down using an app on her phone and sets them aside
for now. While she washes her face and neck, she hums and sings, "These Boots
are Made for Walking", and the first real smile of her day comes once she is
able to set her towel down and belt out, "One of these days these boots are
gonna walk all over you!"

Her eyes appear more tired than they once did, but the fine layers of make-up
that she soon applies rejuvenates that youthful light to the eyes, hiding the
details she has grown to appreciate and watched change, over the years. Reds
and purples make up her palette, and she leans close to the mirror to maintain
precision in her tiny brush strokes while relaxing back when a more relaxed
touch with the product is needed.

Another alarm; 6:50, time to eat breakfast. She drifts through to her bedroom
and wriggles into the clothes she had set out for herself the night before,
checking the mirror again as she passes the bathroom and arrives back at the
kitchen. The second cup of coffee keeps her hands warm on this cold day, while
she listens to news anchors discuss the president's latest speech on the
television. Nearby, peanut butter and locally-made jam sit at the ready,
waiting for the toaster to finish preparing the bagel. It tosses the halves
into the air and she turns away from the television to collect them, spreading
both toppings onto each of the bagel halves.

Though the television continues to play, her attention falls now to her
smartphone, which has on it her to-do lists and calendar. At a leisurely pace,
she appreciates each bite of her bagel with one hand, and touches and sweeps
her thumb along the phone's screen with the other. Her plate and coffee cup are
rinsed and put away in the cupboards, and the last alarm of Sandra's morning
announces that is 7:30. Time to go, she thinks to herself, and collects her
purse and keys in a practiced and timed walk to her front door. Before she
steps outside, she applies her lipstick in the mirror by the door and takes
three deep breaths; I am amazing. I am ground-breaking. And I look damn good
doing it, she says. Her little mantra.

---

Niko's body isn't what it used to be. In his youth, he could begin his days
full of energy and life, but the years now seem to hang heavily from his
shoulders and keep him grumbling from between dirty sheets and blankets well
into the afternoon, after a well-spent night. The clock-radio reads 2:41 after
however long of buzzing, and he throws a pillow at the cacophonous device in
hopes of impacting the snooze button. The young man with which he spent the
night rolled over and tucked himself up closer to keep warm. Niko tries to fall
back asleep but it was of no use; with the pains in his lower back come groans,
deep and heavy, as he lifts himself to his feet. Manhattan lay right outside
his window, across a river that glistens in the early Spring sunshine. Standing
nude, before his window, he stretches slowly while remembering what his
grandfather used to tell him. "When you get to be my age...", he says aloud,
and the younger male stirs up to look at Niko.

"When I get to be your age...?" he inquires sleepily.

"Oh, it is nothing," Niko replies, finding now a pair of tattered jeans on the
floor of his studio to warm his legs, "I used to take runs in the morning, even
as a little kid. My grandfather would say to me, 'Niko, when you get to be as
old as Grand-dad, your knees will not be as good as they are now; your back
will not be as good as it is now.' I thought it was just him, and that I would
be fine, but when I wake, these days, I think of my grandfather's words instead
of running."

Niko's companion struggled with this for a moment. "Do you need me to massage
you?" he eventually asks, looking hopeful.

"I would love to stay, but I have a show tonight. It is my largest audience
yet."

Clothes and musical instruments and milk cartons litter the path between Niko's
window and door. He steps over and around them, taking one last look at the
handsome young man lying on his mattress on the floor.

"I am sorry; I have forgot your name," Niko admits after a quiet moment of
shared glances.

"Jacen," he responds. Niko flashes the smile that makes him infamous and turns
to head out his door and down the lift.

---

Everyone calls him Red, except the nurses at the VA, who refer to him by his
given name, Charles. Most look right past him when they walk down a sidewalk he
calls home, that day; the ones that don't ush him off their stoops and make
fuss about finding jobs. He had a great job, but they wouldn't let him do that
job anymore. He asks for change from a man in a well-tailored business suit,
but gets no reply; the cell phone has enough of the man's attention that not
even a, "No", is provided. He draws pictures of birds and dogs and cruise
ships; sometimes he is able to sell them but the stink of last night's alleyway
and the growing mattes in his hair and beard can be an unsettling sight in this
city. And while he doesn't own a watch, he can tell the approximate time of day
by the shadows and number of people out on the sidewalks; the sudden increase
means that it is almost 1600, and he needs to get his collection of recyclables
from the day to the recycling center, before it closes. He has almost $8 today
in cans and bottles alone. He takes great care in putting away his art
supplies, securing them in his bag and looping the bag onto his shoulders. He
doesn't have enough money for the bus; no one wanted to buy his pictures on
this day. His hand fusses at his throat as his breathing grows difficult, in
the walk south; he clutches the Presidential Medal of Honour to his chest and
muscles forward, so that he may eat, tonight.

All life is art.
