---
title: "An Open Letter: Love Me, Hate Me"
date: '2012-04-11'
description: I think this is the post that got people angry enough to hack me.
categories: ['historical', 'sevenesque']
---

_(Editor's Note: This was originally pubished on sevvie.cc, on April 11th, 2012.
Grammar has been fixed in some areas from the original.)_

There has been a lot of confusion, the last few weeks, about me and my life. I
have made decisions which are not obvious and clear to most, and for this and
my inability to explain well, under stress, has made this a little harder than
it should be. I moved to Vancouver, British Columbia, of my own drive and
volition; while it may seem like the fan was hit with a malodourous material, I
am safe, I am sane, and I am still alive.

I understand where this anxiety and stress come from; while I may seem foolish
oftentimes, I am no fool. My past is littered with the worst of mistakes and I
have hurt the people I love most in fits of anxiety, confusion, and memory
loss. I've been jailed, but never convicted or sentenced, for actions I still
regret. I will not bring shame to those I have hurt by naming hem; let it
suffice to say for now that I am sorry and, while words cannot repair the
damages I have done, I can only hope what I have taught you shows up in your
every day. It seemed like everywhere I went, a deadline would strike, and my
sanity would wash away; I would be left a mere monster in others' lives that
brought pain and confusion and stress. For eight years now, I have moved from
place, to place, to place, starting to create a life and running headlong into
my own problems, shortcomings and baggage, making them other people's problems
as well. It happened in Simi Valley and Tujunga, CA. It happened near
Birmingham, AL and in Richmond, VA. I've been all over this country and my
footprints are the pained memories carried by others. With each of these
memories comes my absence; I always disappear and not just disappear, cross
great distances and burn every bridge to begin again. I have lost everything in
my life more times than I am capable of counting. I have given almost
everything I own and think to others, and have been robbed of all else. With
nothing elft, this situation, that looks exactly like every other situation in
my life, is finally different.

When I lost every friend I had and contact with my mother, last summer, it was
because I had ended up in jail again. I hadn't been convicted, but in Oregon,
even the accusation of domestic abuse will render time in holding. They
couldn't put me in with the men, or the women, given my proclivities, so I
spent eight days in the hospital wing. There was no one to talk to, or to call,
from jail, and doing so would have cost them an arm and a leg. There was one
person who tried to keep in contact, but everyone convinced her otherwise,
patronized and treated her like trash just for showing hope and faith in me. I
failed her, too. But it was in the conversations of a person I barely knew,
that I found hope and faith in myself again. She met me shortly after being let
out, and threw herself into my life. She traveled very far from home just to
meet me, and spent all her money and energy to keep me alive even if I didn't
entirely want to be. I meditated and talked to her for months, and she in turn
talked to me and learned from me. And, as people are prone to do, she made a
rash but beautiful decision. We spent nine months together, before external
stressors became too much and money became too tight. I had taken her away from
her family, and university. Life attempted to repeat itself again, but I
wouldn't let it.

This world is a strange one, and it is influenced by the perspectives and
opinions of every human that walks the planet, for as long as they walk the
planet. Whether you work at a grocery store or a bank, whether you have a
career, or several open contracts as an independent contractor, you affect the
world every day. Consumerism promotes development and design of new products as
wel as greater understanding of user experience and entertainment. Corporatism
creates large communities of personality and identity under which people can
apply and push themselves, surrounded by both structure and respect, as well as
the general understanding that here you do work, and at home you have your
problems. There are many different opinions on this, and every other
philosophical subject related, but they all boil down to a few specific
subjects. I don't actually agree with most of these beliefs and studies, but I
understand where they come from and respect the grounds from which we all
arrived -- I don't think it's what you believe, that rather that you believe in
something. The simplest of these 'not what, but just that you do' philosophies
is religion. Yes, there is a lot of debate and anger regarding even mentioning
these things, but this is just what is seen, what the loudest-speaking people
make apparent about their social group. These people are radicals, no different
from myself in a way; they want you to believe in one God and one Faith and one
Way for all people. There must be one way, because every parent went through
their twenties, disobeyed and rebelled against their parents, and then figured
out, their parents were kinda right. But there isn't one way. There are
millions of ways.

Politics and economics follow very close behind religion when it comes to what
a person believes. It is almost a required field on the New Relationship forms,
that you disclose not only your religious beliefs, but also your political
standpoints and economic bracketing. We have Fiscal Conservatives and Social
Liberals, we have Democrats and Republicans and Independents and Libertarians
and Constitutionalists. Every one of them thinks that the way our governments
do things should be slightly different, but they certainly all agree on the
subjects of constitutional democracies, patriotism and supporting one's
locality. This brings social beliefs into play as well; Western society
promotes tiered Democratic governments and nonviolence, expansion of business
and corporate interests, and profits as a measurable scale of success. A poor
person is not as successful as a rich person, by modern standards.

These are all Western perspectives but the facts hold very much the same for
Eastern cultures. The insular natures of Japan and China are perfect examples;
even with Christianity on the move through these countries, their habits and
patterns are built on hundreds of years of much different patterns, patterns in
which they live under another person and in relationship to their entire
country. There is a commonly-used phrase in Japan, that I've found, "You're not
special, you're Japanese." How is this any different from, "I'm safe and
secure, I'm an American?" How is bowing your head and burning incense to your
ancestors and the protectors of your home different than kneeling by your bed
to pray every night? We like to distinguish and talk about the grand
differences between Us, and Them. But these differences are what make us more
alike, as humans, than anything else.

What do I believe? I believe that humans are capable of anything, especially
the impossible.

One concept that binds the entire First World together, beyond faith or
political beliefs or economic standing or social capital, is the Job. It has
many forms, where a job might be a period of one or two years in a person's
life, a career spans until their retirement age, and a profession lasts until
death. Education is focused primarily on preparing youths for the Job and what
the entire First World will tell them once they are of an adult age -- "Get A
Job." The Job is a very old construct, most recently evolved in the early
2000's, but before this the last real change to the Job and the Education
behind it came in the early 1900's with Henry Ford's Automobile Factory. Work
no longer became about knowing your entire field but rather being able to
perform the tasks in front of you, repetitively, in a team-work process that
accelerates the production of multiple items at once. By the 1990's, the job
was losing grasp as a powerful socioeconomic entity, with Day Traders,
Independent Contractors, LLCs and 501c3 corporations on the rise. No one seemed
to want to notice, though, and who could blame them? Since we entered World War
II, until about 30 years ago, factory work was the one assured job anyone could
obtain. And why, then, would we question the Job? It has made so many people
happy, and every day we see these happy people on television, and on the
internet; we hear about them on the radio and see them smiling in stores at
which we cannot afford to shop. And the career is infinitely better than the
Job; with a salary, you are assured a certain amount of money each month and
your budgeting is stable, unlike working an hourly job where despite being told
you'll work 45 hours this week, you only ended up working 20. There's also
benefits. Vision, Health, Dental, Retirement and Social Security are all
modifications of wage laws to promote the Common Welfare. People tell other
people to get a job because they care, as strange as that sounds -- they don't
want to see other people suffering when they're doing so well, but... sharing
is only for first-graders and communists.

As wonderful and detailed and common as these ideas are, as poweful and
well-refined as they have become with decades of microevolution... it is not
the life for me. It is not what I believe in. I won't throw away a century's
worth of learning by mistake, however; as I said earlier, there are millions of
Ways. It's entirely possible to never have a Job, in your life, without anyone
ever noticing. On television shows about the social interactions of friends, do
you ever see those people go to work? Perhaps as a plot element in one episode,
but for the most part, they are socializing in some sort of pub or coffee shop,
and that shop is in some very large city that, in one way or another, affects
their very life and soul directly. Living in New York is and adventure of
taking too long to travel short distances. It's nearly a mile-high city based
on skyscrapers alone, and it is what is compared to individuality, not the
other way around. Los Angeles is the same way; artists sing with such passion
(or bile) and soul about their City of Angels, the city who loves them. I'm not
the only person to notice this, either -- Writers, stage comedians, satirists,
musicians, even foreign-food television hosts observe this both in themselves
and the world around them, inventing for themselves a 'job.' It looks like a
Job. It pays like a Job. It renders pride and respect like a Job. But like
them, I am, by definition, unemployed.

At this time I would like to take a break from my explanations to more formally
apologize for the actions and words I have chosen on my journey from homeless
and abandoned by life nearly a decade ago, to now. I could spend my time and
energy explaining how the combination of anxiety, thyroid and hypothalamus
problems, and the stress of being told who to be when none of it makes sense,
mixed with the build-up of stress over the span of years, leads to irrational
and unfair behaviour, but then, I would just be making excuses. I don't like
excuses, I like to move forward. I'm sorry, if I have hurt you, or a member of
your family. I'm sorry for the repercussions of my actions that I am so rarely
around to truly see. I am sorry for the fiscal and social anxiety I have put on
each and every one of you. What I do from hereon out, it is for you.

I had a choice, a few days ago. After giving Arden the space and information
she needed to make an educated decision, as well as shutting myself up whenever
I started to ramble anxiously at her, she left a letter on her desk which,
through rambling, resembled a break-up letter, was not. I can't say I handled
the situation perfectly; I made quite a mess with the clothes and dishes she
would not pick up or clean. I didn't turn the situation into hundreds of
dollars of collateral damage, this time. I made a huge mess and after I had my
little temper tantrum, I sat down and I planned. I had the choice between
letting this situation affect me as it always as, or to turn it into something
more, something beautiful, something that changes, if not the world, then
myself.

I wish this were the first time I'd faced this decision, but this is the first
time I've faced it with the confidence I feel. I've never been a confident
woman; I've just faked it really well the last couple years. These days,
however, I am confident, I am sure, and I am not ignoring the details, small or
large.

I have many inspirations for the decisions I've made in the last couple weeks.
Amongst them are Mark Twain, and William Shakespeare. Their works are
antiquated in many ways; Shakespeare uses a language most consider dead and
most high-school students complain and laugh about, however behind the words
used, Shakespeare has captured the soul and beauty of every type of  human
being he could observe. His observations are, to this day, some of the best
portrayals of love, tragedy, and irony that have ever been written, in so many
opinions.Before Shakespeare, I don't believe there are any portrayals of women
that are not overly-dehumanizing, but the Bard captured the wile, the love, the
simplicity and liberty of self that all women have, in ways that to this day
assist the words of feminists. Mark Twain, as well, shows antiquation in his
writings. In a time and age where civil liberties had not even been discussed,
this author was able to capture the souls and personalities of those considered
'less-than' -- Islander and African Americans, Chinese immigrants and children.
What if Mark Twain and Shakespeare had had Twitter, or Facebook? Beneath every
written story is another story, the story of the author experiencing the world
around him and transforming it into a beauty to which many can deny but very
few can look away from. Our hearts, our souls, our minds grow; the painter
captures a frame of life that best portrays his thoughts and perspective and
the yearning of his soul, and the writer captures time and space in the medium
of words so he may share his soul with others as well.

This has been a long and slightly rambling letter, and I apologize again;
though well-planned, my ways of speaking aren't the most refined, yet. This
being the case, I come to what precedes my conclusion: Vancouver. Two days ago,
9 Apr 2012, I boarded an Amtrak train with two suitases, a laptop bag and a
box, leaving all but what I could carry with me (or convince someone else to
carry with me) to a young woman that I love with all my heart, and want to see
flourish, grow, and succeed. This was only the first of perhaps hundreds of
decisions I've made and documented for myself; this letter is step four of
those hundreds of decisions. Here, in Vancouver, I will search for the soul or
souls of this city, search for its unique qualities and beauties, search for
what is hidden beneath its surfaces and smiling faces. I will tell my story,
and I will tell the city's story, using multiple mediums of written art -- with
Twitter I can quip my thoughts and share my writings; with Facebook or Google+
I can create a timeline of events of the next niety days, while I study and
explore this beautiful metropolis. With Instagram, I will document my travels
with photography and more quippy comments. And with 90 days before the Canadian
Government complains about my lack of a Visa, I will produce both a book
depicting the soul of Vancouver, and shape a new form of storytelling and
entertainment; these social media outlets will become tiny snapshots through
the days in my life, and my stories that will transform, over time, into the
descriptions I choose for Vancouver. This won't be my only tasks while I am
here, but I certainly hope it is entertaining. I'm not the only one with a
story, but my story is one that is inspiring when told correctly; cities also
have stories, and souls, and I think Vancouver's could be inspiring and
entertaining if told correctly, too.

Welcome to Vancouver. Whether you love me, or you hate me (there often isn't
much middle ground), I love everyone and everything. I will share these
beauties and miracles and simple facts with you all, and hopefully you can see
the world through my eyes.

Love, 7
