---
title: Antimanifesto
date: '2012-08-28'
description: "Antimanifesto, Italian, from the Latin, antimanifestum, meaning 'not clear or conspicuous.'"
categories: ['sevenesque']
tags: ['personal']
type: 'draft'
---

I've been thinking about "Why I want to do things, and how that relates to how
I do these things" a lot recently. A tiny bit of digging through lesswrong, but
mostly my own Descartean exploration from meditation over a year ago to
re-beginning life half a year ago, to now...

I want to write software, and design interoperable and sensible platforms for
information, because I believe in the gathering, sorting, and sharing of
information. I believe in equipping the species for what is to happen, and,
sadly, has already happened a couple times very recently.

I believe in loving everyone, especially if I don't love them.

1% of people create. 9% of people curate. 90% of people consume. I believe
that, if I'm able to gather and sort and organize this information, through
wikis, through git, through properly-designed stream platforms and whatever
else comes my way from past or future... that I can clear away the fog and
debris left by careless media, political, and troll debate, and extend our
first-world's 1% creators to encapsulate the 1% of the entire world's
creators.

I want to do all three. I want to be the ouroboros that forces information to
keep flowing; the consumer that pushes forward to create, the creator that
attends to the needs of curation, and the curator who seeks out new and
interesting consumption.

I want curated inforamtion to be available to all of Africa. This isn't me
being a white person solving an African problem, but rather, an attempt at
sharing gifts; rebuilding the library of Alexandria in some shape or form, and
filling it with printed and digital media.

I want the same for the Middle East. India. China. I want people to read about
someone building a generator to independently power their home, and
nigh-immediately have access to blueprints, white sheets, considerations and
warnings. I want blueprints of houses â€” any kind of house. I want any house to
be replicable, or better, remixed, where homes are needed most.

I believe that good artists borrow, great artists steal, and the best artists
remix and collaborate. I believe that all life is art.

Deep down inside... yes. I want to level the playing fields.

First-world knowledge is great, but the native americans, both First Nations in
Canada and Natives in the US, and every region of Africa, and every tribe of
the Middle East and every chunk of the very segmented Indian region and every
place where people can be found in South America and Australia...

They have thoughts too, and histories, ancestries, they have inspiration I
could not even dream to touch upon, that would feel so common-place to them.

The difference between the fork and the chop-stick is the difference between
the same industry creating many different patented systems, different
innovations in development and speed, hugely-different economies for the
commodity of "utensil..."

These innovations go on to affect other industries in the region, and even
spawn manufacturing industries that specialize in the commonality between
plastic-fork-making equipment and, say, plastic knife making equipment. The
chop-stick innovations, on the other hand, supply the innovation of
less-expensive housing-frames, in Japan and China (at least until paper houses
finally went out of style)

Another beautiful example of where the cross-roads of Industry create grounds
for innovation is the very direct line between the first computing machines,
  and weaving looms.

Binary began, truly, as a language of "Yes" and "No"; yes, this thread goes
through, no, this thread does not; yes this thread gets lifted (or pulled
down), no, this thread does not.

Sewing circles are not solely based in trades of cloth, anymore. Say what one
will about gossip, say what one will about open or closed gardens; information
will always flow, if it has the inertia to flow. Babbage saw the mathematical
applications of these increasingly-complex looms, and designed a loom of his
own that handled very little cloth.

Ada Lovelace, in turn, saw the innovations Babbage was creating, and it was her
own forms of communication and remaining informed, that led her to becoming
what I think most respect as "the first programmer," mailing her "scripts" to
Babbage for testing and execution.

This pattern is seen all throughout history.

There is another pattern that is seen throughout history; one where the
opportunistic and generally selfish stifle development and innovation for
decades at a time. There is very little new about the current patent war and
political storms of our age; 320 years ago, mathematics itself was stymied by
the debates over who owned infinitesimal calculus.

Information should be for everyone. What they do with it is their own
prerogative; I suspect, though, that the prerogative of a large percentage of
the world's population is survival and hope...

And I hope with them.

I believe information should be gathered, curated, and shared with everyone.
And, I do mean everyone. For it to be in one language or only on a digital
platform would make no sense. If you can get it digitally, get it digitally. If
you can't... I hope to print a copy for you, and your region, in your language,
soon.
