---
title: "Because, Because, Because"
date: '2012-04-20'
description:
categories: ['sevenesque']
---

_(With time to waste in the morning I usually do not have, the ideas keep
coming. This is a separate piece from my writings to Alan Ginsberg.)_

Mammas, it's time to let your babies grow up to be cowboys.

That song is one of the things that separate the Baby Boomer generation and
Generation X, from Generation why. The Boomers were a huge generation, and
after the two worst wars the world had ever seen, they wanted security and
stability; culture in the middle class flourieshed like mad, to fill in the
gaps Europe held against America. We made it up as we went along, and so many
parts of it worked; but the cracks began to show and the weather softened the
sides and spread their middles and when the leaks began to pour in, no one
mentioned the soaking wet elephants in the room. They lifted their heads with
prides reserved for wasps, and flamingos, and passed off the problems as
somebody-else's, cooking up civility at the dinner table in Seth MacFarlane's
comically-intended words.

"Richness and greed will save us," they cried in the Eighties, "Like the rains,
they will trickle down and wash us clean."

But it was the rains that flooded our basements with unused train sets and
expired computer parts and boxes upon boxes that will never see their purpose;
their purpose in being kept so that their previously-held products can be
packed up and shipped elsewhere in trade for little pieces of green paper, when
the newer products do arrive.

Why, asks my generation, and so they are called by Letter; our parents are both
Boomers and Gen-X, jaded and insular and hiding from what is beyond the
property lines owned by a bank but pretty-much-theirs, and teaching this
isolationist, greedy, protectionist philosophy to their next generation
because.

Because, because, because.
