---
title: "Cross-town Shopping Cart Expressway"
date: '2012-05-26'
description: The liberty and madness of the 'binners' of Vancouver.
categories: ['sevenesque']
---

When you see it once, you can put it out of your mind with great ease. That
crazy homeless man is gonna get himself killed, you might think to yourself.
The second time, you find yourself curious and a little worried; are they all
doing this?

By the third time you see the homeless men rocketing down the slopes of W
Hastings St on the backs of their shopping carts, you could be thinking
anything. My fears for their lives, and my own life as a slow-moving
pedestrian, overwhelm me as they time their jump from the curb on Hamilton St
and pick up speed downhill, sometimes flowing with traffic and other times
risking so much to cross both sides of the thoroughfare in a perilous and
weaving diagonal. Weighed down by trinkets and clothing and so much recyclable
trash that can be exchanged for money in the direction they travel, they lean
and control their shopping carts like proud stock-car racers.

It is not my interest to be political, but this is hazardous to everyone
involved. Drivers slow and brake hard to keep from hitting the
suddenly-oncoming homeless 'sanitation engineers'. Buses and pedestrians alike
dodge and avoid as they take advantage of the same gaps in timing that turning
vehicles and crossing pedestrians use.

I don't blame anyone in this, though. The cruise ships are in the harbour and
the tourists are out in droves in Downtown; with the incentive of money in
exchange for recyclable items and pawnable items directly downhill from where
the vacationers explore on the edge of the West End, it is not a problem that
is easily-remedied. Pedestrians and vehicle operators expect their appropriate
right-of-ways, and the engineering of many civic needs relates to these traffic
patterns; however, the city is kept beautiful by the homeless 'sanitation
engineers' and their Crosstown Expressway connects those parts of town and
Pigeon Park.

So for now, I'll say this; if you are about to be blindsided by a homeless man
driving a shopping cart, yield. He'll control his cart well; he doesn't want to
lose the day's bounty. And if you're a homeless person driving a shopping cart
down Hastings, please move with the flow of traffic and change directions
appropriately. Act like you're on a bike, please; if not for my sake, then for
your own life.

-7 (Blackberry Shortcake)
